hi this is pressure Locker a geometry
textbook has the following problem a
right triangle has a hypotenuse equal to
10 and an altitude to the hypotenuse
equal to 6 what is the area of the
triangle can you figure it out this
story goes a teacher asked this problem
to a class and every single student
quickly submitted a calculation the
teacher then said none of the
calculations were correct can you figure
out why give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
the solution you can approach this
problem by drawing a diagram we have a
right triangle which has a hypotenuse of
10 and an altitude to the hypotenuse
equal to 6 the area of a triangle is
equal to its base times its height
divided by 2 to apply this formula it
might help to rotate the triangle the
hypotenuse of 10 becomes the base and
the altitude of 6 becomes the height
substituting those numbers in the
formula we get an area equal to 30 but
this is not the correct answer to this
problem
the reason is the dimensions of the
problem are not correct let's see why
imagine we have a hypotenuse equal to 10
if the two endpoints of this line
segment make up two points of the
triangle we want to know where can we
draw a third point work in the third
vertex B to make a right triangle now
not every point will make a right
triangle but some points will form a
right triangle so we want to figure out
the locus of points where we can place
the third vertex to make a right
triangle here's how we can figure it out
if the third vertex forms a 90-degree
angle then it's going to September
it a degrees so if we think about the
hypotenuse as the diameter of a circle
then the third vertex can be anywhere
else in the circle to form a right
triangle these are the only points that
will form a right triangle with that
hypotenuse of 10
the altitude the hypotenuse is the
vertical distance from this third point
to the hypotenuse this will vary
depending on which point it is in the
circle so we want to know what's the
largest altitude we can make well this
will be when we move the altitude all
the way to this point this is the
largest possible altitude of the right
triangle and this is exactly equal to
the radius of the circle this is one
half the diameter of ten which means the
largest altitude you could have is equal
to five so the correct answer to this
problem is that there's a typo in the
textbook there is no right triangle that
is a hypotenuse equal to ten and an
altitude to the hypotenuse equal to six
and most you can have an altitude equal
to half of the hypotenuse which would be
five did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch me on my blog
mind your decisions which you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch you on social media at pressure
Walker and if you liked this video
please check out my books their links in
the video description